API and Usage Reference
=======================

Functions
---------

#### `createInstance([config])`
Returns a new instance of Scurvy with config options applied if specified. Synchronous.

#### config object fields:
- `showTrace` - Enables internal trace logging to console.log. A boolean value for debug and development purposes. Defaults to `false`.
<p></p>
- `authSchema` - Choose a standard method of login. When this String value is changed in an existing installation, the assumed table structure will change -- resulting in the need to alter or drop/recreate tables. It is suggested to pick the one that suits you best and stick with your choice.
`authSchema` can be set to one of the following modes:
  - `'userid'` - Uses a userid field as the login name. Also includes an email address field. Default value.
  - `'email'` - Uses the user's email address as the login name.

#### `loadModels(hook)`
Loads all scurvy models into the provided `hook` object. Call this once after initializing a scurvy instance. The provided `hook` object must contain a field `sequelize` which is an instantiation of a `new Sequelize(...)` object. Synchronous.

#### `setupAssociations(hook)`
Sets up the primary-key/foreign-key relationships of the scurvy models. Call this once after calling the above `loadModels()` with the same `hook`. Synchronous.

#### `setupSync(hook, callback, [syncParams])`
Creates the `User` and `Metastate` tables if they don't already exist. Call this once after calling the above `setupAssociations()` with the same `hook`. The `callback` is called after completion with method signature `callback(err, successful)`, where `successful` is `true` when the operation completed successfully. `syncParams` is an optional parameter passed in to the Sequelize table creation `.sync()` function. See http://sequelizejs.com/documentation#models-database-synchronization . Asynchronous.

#### `generateNewHash(input, callback)`
Creates a 60 character hash and 29 character salt from ```input```. Calls ```callback``` when complete with method signature ```function (err, result)```. ```err``` is null when there is no error. ```result``` is an object with two fields ```salt``` and ```hash``` that are created by the hashing algorithm.  Asynchronous.

#### `comparePlaintextToHash(inputPassword, hash, callback)`
Takes an ```inputPassword``` and  ```hash``` that was created with generateNewHash() (where inputPassword was the input) and returns a ```callback``` with method signature ```function(err, matches)``` where ```err``` is null when there is no error, and ```matches``` is true if the parameters validate. Asynchronous.

#### `setRounds(rounds)`
Optional function. Internally, rounds defaults to 10.
`rounds` must be an integer > 0. Synchronous.

#### `generateMetastateHashkey(email, salt, callback)`
Generates a metastate hash based off of the provided ```email``` and ```salt```. The salt is intended to be the same which hashes the user's password.
The resultant hashkey is passed to the callback with method signature ```callback(err, result)``` and can be used for an account confirmation URL (or other ways of identifying the account with a hash).
If ```err``` is null, the ```result``` object will include a field: ```hashkey```. Asynchronous.

#### `doesMetastateHashkeyHaveUser(hashkey, callback)`
Checks the database to see if a `User` with a `status` of `inactive` exists for a given `hashkey`.
The `callback` is fired when the query is complete with method signature `callback(err, result)` where `result` is false if the match does not exist, otherwise it will be an object with fields containing the sequelize objects of the found user: `{ user: user, metastate: metastate }`. Asynchronous.

#### `validateMetastateHashkey(hashkey, email, callback)`
Checks to see if a given ```hashkey``` was generated by a particular ```email```.
If the hashkey was generated by the email, the ```callback(err, validates)``` will have a null ```err``` and ```validates``` will be true. Else, ```validates``` will be false. Asynchronous.

#### `createUser(params, callback)`
Creates a user with given ```params```. Required fields for ```params``` include: ```userid```, ```email```, ```passwrd```, and ```status```. If `authSchema` is set to `email`, do not pass the `userid` field as it is not used in this configuration.
```status``` must be either ```'active'```, ```'inactive'```, or ```'deleted'```. If left blank, ```status``` will default to ```inactive```.
Upon completion, ```callback``` will be called with method signature ```callback(err, result)``` where result will be an object containing sequelize object references to the newly created  ```user``` and ```metastate``` if ```err``` is null. Asynchronous.

#### `activateUser(input, callback)`
Takes a sequelize object reference of a User instance that has a property `input.metastate` and sets the `status` property to `active`.
The callback function is fired with method signature `callback(err, successful)`, and `successful` is true when the user was successfully updated. Asynchronous.

#### `verifyCredentials(credentials, callback)`
Checks the database to see if the given `credentials` are valid for an existing user, and returns the user. The `credentials` object requires different parameters depending on the configuration -- if `authSchema` is set to `userid`, pass in the object like: `{ userid 'theuserid', passwrd: 'thepassword' }` and if `authSchema` is set to `email`, pass in the object like: `{ email 'theemail@domain.com', passwrd: 'thepassword' }`. The `callback` is called with method signature `callback(err, user)` where the `user` will be a valid retrieved `User` object if the `credentials` are valid, else it will be `false`.

